Arbor
Vista
Arbor
Vista
Blog
AVA Constitution
AVA Deed
Events
Maps
Projects
Resources
NextDoor
Links
 Edit this Page
Projects
AV 911 Driveway Signage
AV 911 Signage Project Plan
Status: Waiting for AVA budget allocation
Objective: Install clearly visible home number with street name signage near the driveway entrance of each home through-out the neighborhood.
Project Manager: Richard Hoppel [rhoppel@gmail.com; mobile 847.400-7505]
The APPROVED sign for this project from SmartSign
Early Bird Adopters: Sign up at the AVA Annual Meeting
click on image for larger version

Side	the approved sign	sign on post (preferred)	sign on mailbox	sign on back of mailbox
Front	sign	 sign	 sign	 sign
Back	sign	 sign	 sign	 sign
Driveway sign on a typical driveway
Sign in full scene

Preferred Location: at the entrance of the driveway
Double-Sided Aluminum sign is Highly Visible at Night
Mounting post made of composite material for durability
the sign post be mounted on back side of post towards same-sided oncoming traffic for best visibility for opposite-side traffic (see photos)
Free for AVA Members in good standing at No Cost
Installed for a price for non-AVA members
JULIE must be contacted for installation of a new post
JULIE E-request
FAQ
Why is is this happening?
We would like for 911 calls to result in emergency services arriving at the correct driveway location. Driveway locations can be VERY different from the mailbox locations and VERY confusing. Arbor Vista has never had consistent signage. It is difficult to find house numbers and streets for non-residents, especially at night. Also, the Lake County Sheriff officers have had discussions with us about difficulty finding locations in Arbor Vista. Google maps does not always locate proper house addresses because mailbox and driveways are not registered in their database. Your houseguests will appreciate the clearly marked driveway signs!
My mailbox clearly marks my driveway. What is the problem?
You are in the minority. Many mailboxes are on the opposite side of the property and not even near the driveways. Several driveways are not even on the same street as the mailbox. Many mailbox locations have two mailboxes. The number clarity on many mailboxes is very poor. The mailboxes are laid out for the convenience of the US Post Office in numerical order, not indicating the closest driveway. You can review the maps below indicating the mailbox locations. [Red boxes indicate the mailbox locations]
Do I have to have a sign installed?
No. Signs will ONLY be installed after an approval and review with the homeowner.
When will a sign be installed?
When YOU make contact with the Project Manager and arrange an installation.
How much will it cost?
It is FREE for Arbor Vista Association members in good standing (Your dues are paid for 2019 and 2018.). Others will have to pay a fee.
I am not a AVA member. Can I get a sign?
It can be installed for a fee. The cost is TBD. Consider joining the AVA so you can get a sign installed for free!
Where will the sign be installed?
The recommended location is on a post next to the driveway entrance of your choice (many driveways have two entrances). The sign can be your choice of the right or left side of the driveway as "viewed from the street". An alternative would be mounted to your mailbox post. For many homes the driveway is not that close to the mailbox. Therefore the mailbox is a preferred choice.
Can I install it somewhere else?
Possibly. Alternatives need to be approved by the Project Manager
Why not only put the sign on mailbox posts?
The mailbox location does not always clearly mark where the correct driveway is located which leads to confusion. A house number sign located at the end of the driveway near the street is the best location for clarity. On some streets mailboxes are only on one side of the street while others use both sides. The mailbox side is not consistent in Arbor Vista.
Can I install it myself?
We are trying to install the signs in a consistent manner throughout the neighborhood. Ideally we would like to install the sign to maintain a consistent presentation, but under special circumstances we could allow the homeowner to complete installation with final approval of the Project Manager.
Who is managing this project?
Richard Hoppel and the Arbor Vista Association Buildings and Grounds manager
Do I have to contact any authorities beforehand?
Probably. If a post is to be installed, JULIE must be contacted before installing the post. The Warren Township Highway Dept. insists on this.
What does the Warren Township Highway Department think about this?
They totally approve of the concept and are working with us to provide an ideal installation. We will continue to work closely with them during the planning and implementation phase.
Can I get a replacement sign if it is damaged?
Yes, for a fee. Or you can use the link above to order your own sign
Does the US Post Office have regulations concerning mailboxes?
Yes. USPS Mailbox Regulations
Do the USPS Regulations conflict with this project?
No. USPS require 1" letters mounted on the box or post. This sign will fulfill this requirement.
Why choose the sign from SmartSign?
Many alternatives have been reviewed and this is the best choice. The sign is very visible and readable at night, very customized attractive layout, well-made and durable 2-sided aluminum with 3M materials, reasonably priced, and it is easy to order with very fast delivery (a couple of days). Customer service is outstanding.
What is the post made of?
[Under evaluation] Currently the plan is to us a 1" x 2" composite material about 4 feet in length. The post would extend 2 feet into the ground to prevent freezes from moving the sign. This would provice a very sturdy stucture for the sign and it is more attractive than a metal post. Metal alternatives will be evaluated when we review some samples. The final solution needs to be cost-effective, attractive (at least compared to the alternatives), easy to install and durable while maintaining a vertical position.
Mailbox and House Number Sign Locations Progress
A Red  on a property boundary marks the approximate mailbox location physically located on that homeowner's property.
A Red  in the street indicates that this mailbox is located on the opposite side of the street and not physically located on the !!! homeowners property.
A Green  indicates that a sign has been installed and the approximate location.
Click on a map for a larger version

NW	NE
 NW	 NE
SW	SE
 SW	 SE
FIXED: Front Entrance Structural Problems
https://photos.app.goo.gl/CXEzYKvkWkDqFYtB7

ArborVista.org was  with  by Richard Hoppel techDogs.us.